yeah man thanks for coming on so can you
tell me a little bit about you know is
there something in particular you want
to talk about today or something that
would be hey we have the same headset oh
really oh the sign Houser yes yeah it's
really comfortable I like it a lot yeah
it's good um you know I was just gonna
say tell me a little bit about you know
how can be helpful and and what you want
to talk about today um so I guess the
topic was supposed to be like gaming
burnout okay um so I guess a little bit
about my background is that I'm from
Hawaii after I graduated high school I
worked for my dad as an intern for a
year and then I got fired cuz you know I
didn't I didn't want to do it I got
lucky with the game League of Legends
and I got flown out a free trip to
Sweden and then I started my league pro
career by joining well going to the TSM
house and then I played pro for like
five years and then I've played league
for like ten years and I've had like you
know ups and downs and I get into
details as we talked about wow so you're
a pro league player um I used to be used
to be okay yeah so I've I haven't been
pro for like four years now three years
around that time yeah I worked with a
fair number of people who were kind of
transitioning out of being pro yeah I'm
League overwatch mostly a little bit of
csgo a little bit of Rainbow six but
yeah so tell me a little bit about yeah
so when you said gaming burnout what do
you mean by that um it's just one of
those things where you play the game
same game for a long time and you don't
want to play it as much but then your
fans want you to play it and it also
brings you income so instead of doing it
for fun it becomes your job because
going from casual to pro
yeah I don't I don't see how else to say
it I feel like that's common knowledge
at this point yeah so you feel like you
have to play the game um there was a
time yeah that I felt like I had to play
the game and I thought about it for
years on end that you know would I be
okay without it should I not play it for
the good of my mental health because
playing it was hurting me because uh so
when you play the same game
that's a controlled by the developers
where they control every patch how the
game has changed like whatever they want
to do sometimes they make changes that
are bad and a riot is always accompany
about changing and so whether it's good
or worse some of the changes they've
made have made it the experience much
less enjoyable like what at this
so in League of Legends there's this
thing called funneling and what that is
is that instead of having a standard
game of you know five people versus five
people like there's one person top
middle two people bottom and one that
goes around the map yeah jungle and so
instead of having that standard thing
there's a role called support which is
they basically you know they have their
bottom they support their other laner
they wrote their job is to help them get
as strong as possible now instead of
just having one support in the game the
concept of funneling is there's two
supports and what will happen is
there'll be another support in a and a
Lane where they're by themselves and
instead of becoming someone strong their
goal is to make someone who is roam roam
roaming around strong and the cod so the
concept is like okay cool that's their
that's their strategy but it's a very
straightforward and like hard to counter
strategy if you make mistakes again it's
really unique and it it
what it does is it enables that one
person to hard carry and it's very
unfund to play against because they
don't even have to play it perfectly but
even if you play it perfectly you can
still lose the unsay it's a very common
cheese ela boosting strategy and because
I've played the game for so long there
are some games where I feel like I
played it perfectly and I'll still lose
which will happen either way but I felt
even more so against the strategy and
that was just one of the many things
that just turned me off from playing the
game and just made me like you know
please my mind are you kind of saying
that it lowered the skill ceiling of the
game to sort of have a strategy that
just was kind of lopsided and yeah so um
it lowered the skill ceiling not because
of the person only getting all the farm
but because of the person who's giving
them all that instead of playing the
game normally and you know getting
stronger like your skills tested you
don't have to you can literally put
anyone in that position of giving the
farm to that person and all they would
have to do is just they wouldn't have to
focus on macro at all they just have to
help that person and it's it
considerably lowers the skill ceiling
because usually you'd have a skilled
player in this role because they're
they're considered a carry but instead
they're given the support role which is
I'm not trying to say support is easier
than caring but when you don't have to
focus on blasts hitting which is what
gives you money in the game I'm a boom
boom and I'm not now much of a blower
okay I just so I'm with like ADC and
carrying and in the mid and jungle one
oh yeah basically they you just turned
their brain off and just give all the
gold to the jungler yeah so just as a
reference for how much of a Boomer and
how little of a boomerang I am I've
started playing dota probably like let
me think about this 14 years ago okay
then you know more than enough so back
when when you know I was I was there
when MOBAs were born boy yeah me too so
okay so I see so it seems like some of
the changes that the developers make
have it really kind of taken some of the
joy out of the game for you yeah it's
it's kind of like it's not completely
their fault because it's the player base
that also abuses it so yeah sure but I
mean isn't isn't the game developer
responsible for creating the setting
that then players are gonna abuse or not
abuse yeah you know I think players are
gonna be pieces of right you're
gonna cheese they're gonna cheese
whatever they can
yeah for sure I mean and I think that's
why like good developers are so
important because they're gonna create
the setting through which you know
that's gonna dictate a certain kind of
behavior yeah I want to say it's hard
for them to balance it because it's such
a there's so many champions in the game
but I guess what really irritated me as
a pro player is that they would hold
these riots summit me these these player
summit meetings where pro players have
come in and pro players that give their
advice and and a lot of players that
play the game a lot have their concerns
but there's also like the lower level of
play where people have their concerns
because what works and lower skill level
games doesn't always work at high and
vice versa and so they would hold these
we would have these meetings where like
we could give them feedback and there's
some things that were clearly broken and
a lot of the time it wasn't listened to
and that's what frustrated me because
it's like why why am I going to this
it's not even like being considered
because it just gets written off by
certain people in the balance team sand
up okay go ahead yes all right guys
oh and uh a lot of people have expressed
like similar opinions and I just feel
like there's some people in the balance
team that are actually just smoking weed
or getting in a hot ox and just be like
what if we did this and that's how
strongly I feel about it
yeah so let me just see if I'm hearing
you I'm kind of getting the sense that
so I just just
I've been jotting a couple things down
as you've been talking so this is just
literally the words that I wrote down
and let me know if these kind of feel
right so feeling forced to play in a
particular way being forced to play a
particular game for money for fans kind
of struggling with the sense of illusion
of choice where in theory you could stop
in theory they'll change the game in a
different way but that you're kind of
forced what I'm getting from you is sort
of a sense of being forced into
something yeah it's kind of like the
feeling of let's say you post on Twitter
every day for the idea of getting likes
getting it popular and like oh yeah I
feel good so many people like my tweet
and sometimes you tweet about stuff and
people are like who cares shut up but
it's like your Twitter account so it's
kind of its kind of like that - yeah so
can you say you said that sometimes wall
hurts you use the Oh a lot can you tell
me what you meant by that sorry if I
didn't give you enough second um it's
it's been a double-edged sword for me
because it's obviously created a career
for being everything and putting me
where I am today but uh so there are
many ways of explaining of how it hurts
me for
when we were talking about the changes
while I was a pro there's the concepts
of two verse wanting the top planar so
they would switch bottom in top and that
was a meta that was a meta they were
constantly trying to fix for like three
years and that's something that hurt me
when the jungler gang stuff
you're constantly yeah I'm a I'm a top
player usually the top player top laners
have to deal with most of the harassment
throughout the game because for junglers
they I just have to you know farm creeps
and worry about the enemy jungler the
mid laners they have a short lane so
they don't get punished as hard top
miners have the long Lane so there's
more risk to me bottom liners have their
support but top laners were left all
alone
we're basically left all alone and we're
forced to pick characters that will
allow us to survive drift less resources
but at the same time you're also dealing
with the enemy top laner where if he
abuses that the higher level play it
goes the harder it is so sure I just
there's just so many factors and things
that I don't want to get too far into it
and and so if we think about gaming
burnout is it sort of this idea of being
forced to play in a particular way being
forced to play a game that the meta has
changed away from what you want it to be
being forced to play League of Legends
for your financial well-being for the
people that have supported you feeling
kind of an you bet you owe them or that
you know they've supported you so that
you should give them what they want is
that what you mean by burnout No
that's just me expressing my pain I
guess what burnout really is is that
I've played league of legends for like
12 hours a day for four five to six
years doing my pro career and um I guess
what the burnout is really comes from is
not only playing it so much and grinding
it so much but I guess what it comes
from is not knowing how to take a break
I think that's what really creates it
for me okay buzz so I pardon me which
iris if I'm a bit confused so you said
during your pro career so when was was
that some time ago or as are we talking
about now are we talking about gaming
Burma burnout a while ago um it was a
while ago and I think I'm still kind of
burnt out today as a gamer because I've
played games every day of my life
basically so what is the burnout that
you so like let's just think about that
right so that sounds kind of confusing
to me and I'm gonna question your
formulation of it so it makes absolute
sense and I've dealt a lot with pro
gamer burnout and streamer burnout and
things like that actually my day job I'm
a burnout specialist so do a lot of
stuff work would burn out with like
Investment Banking with entrepreneurs
with physicians you know these you know
there's like the 40-hour Work Week and
the funny thing is that like many
physicians just find that to be
preposterous so like in residency the
expectation is that you work 80 hours a
week and the residency is what you do
after med school when you actually learn
how to be a doctor and so you have the
the national medical accreditation
institution which is called the ACGME
and they basically had to pass a law
that said that you can't work your
residents more than 80 hours a week on
average so what that means is that like
what what residency programs do is
they'll have some weeks where people
will work like a hundred hours a week
and then they'll have like a research
block where they were supposed to be
working like 50 hours a week
and and it ends up like people work 80
90 100 hour weeks depending on whether
you're a surgeon or psychiatrist or you
know it just depends on what you do and
so the you know it's strange because
like in some you know you're kind of
saying that 12 hours five to six days a
week is between 60 and 72 hours of work
a week and oh no I'm talking like seven
days a week
see yeah it's big I don't have like a
specific number but it the lifestyle was
wake up play all day sleep right so so
that that is like I think often times if
it may have been more than 12 hours
right so like it may have been eight or
sixteen and I think we should talk about
that lifestyle because that's a
lifestyle that you don't have to be a
pro gamer to do it right wake up start
with YouTube switch to some gaming watch
a little bit of twitch go back to gaming
back to a little bit of youtube learn
something philosophical on YouTube for a
little while you know pull out your
switch in bed browse Reddit and then
sleep it's like a it's like a full day
so we can talk about that lifestyle I'm
sorry did you want to say something okay
yeah that's the idea of it but it's
harder in a way because you're competing
at the top level so there's just more
stress involved sure instead of instead
of it sounding like something were you
you know it's just the casual lifestyle
it's very much more stressful because um
you live with other people on your team
and you you deal with each other because
of the gaming house such and such and
you're just all trying to figure out how
to win yeah so if you want to we can
talk about that because I have some
experience doing consulting for
professional organizations for like
physical sports and eSports and I don't
know where people got the idea that
twelve hours a day seven days a week
makes you a better player than ten hours
a day six days a week right so like
there's this huge assumption in the
world of eSports that the more you play
the better you get and that the harder
you grind the more you perform I don't
know that that's
actually the case what you thinking I
think it really depends cuz I I can't
say that I've seen players who've played
like there's a Korean player we played
against and he was late to scrims cuz he
would just be playing all night all day
he'd sleep for like four hours and just
play for the rest of the day I guess the
the key word here is being efficient
about the time he put in yeah and also
also efficiently resting yeah I
completely agree and and so some of the
consulting work that I've done has been
around you know even like having people
on the same pro team talk about their
feelings with each other because a lot
of times people get frustrated and upset
with each other and that like ultimately
the more frustrated and upset you are
with your teammates the harder it is to
hit a flow state and the one thing that
I've heard time and time again whether
it's with working with NFL players or
overwatch athletes is like getting into
the flow state is what wins you games
and the more you can stay in the flow
state it's it's being able if you're in
a best-of-five like losing one game and
being able to forget about that and
focus on the second game completely
independent of whether your tournament
life is on the line or not it's just
playing the best game you can play and I
think a lot of that has way more to do
with not just it's just not the number
of hours you put in it's about being the
best you it's like you said like kind of
using your time efficiently making sure
you and your team are harmonious like if
you guys lose a game like are you guys
blaming or is everyone blaming the top
laner because they to view one top and
their ADC got fed and then they lost or
do they recognize that the reason that
the ADC got fat is because you didn't
have enough support and and are you guys
playing to win are you guys playing to
like you no blame each other so I think
there's a lot in in the realm of eSports
that I think is actually in its infancy
and if you look at organizational
psychology and in different
organizations like I forget what Ray
Dalio is there's a hedge fund manager
named Ray Dalio and he he wrote an
excellent book called principles and he
runs one of the most successful
runs in the world and just kind of
talking a little bit about like how he
runs his company and I think there are a
lot of ways to run organizations that
can improve efficiency and eSports is
just really really behind and you get
guys that are former pro players that
know the game really well but really
have no background in organizational
behavior or management or anything like
that anyway now I'm granting but um but
you know dyrus let me let me toss
something out so like I so are you burnt
out today because you were a pro five to
six years ago like why are you burnt out
today
so a few months ago
I took a I decided to completely stop
streaming for three months
like just completely stop to see if I
could feel better or get better and I
did feel better about things but I
didn't feel like it made too much of a
difference basically like I like I said
before my life as I wake up I eat I
stream and I sleep but I also have a
have a girlfriend so their girlfriends
in between also and so it started to
become where I need to manage my time to
the point where I can at least do my
everyday adult responsibilities and I
think one of the reasons why I feel
burnt out is cuz since I've played so
much games it's really hard to find a
game that's as fun as the time I enjoyed
League of Legends like I'll enjoy some
games for a few days but a lot of the
time and this year and you'll hear a lot
of people that play games say this is
like oh man what what games do I play
there's no good fun games at play man I
can't wait for a new game to come out so
I can play that and you play it and it
only lasts so long and the you just feel
a lot of emptiness because you don't
have a game to get addicted to now for
today specifically the game valor end is
out so that's what I'm currently
addicted to right now and
[Music]
how do you like that it's just a cycle I
love the game I think the only time I
felt discomfort in the game is when they
they changed the headshot sound and when
you shot them a head is like there's
like a mute like a sound like you
playing like a music counts ound keep
playing and then like I forget whatever
sound but they changed it to like this
loud plate crunching sound and when you
headshot people you'd hear that but they
they took it off but for that day was
actually like one of the worst days I've
had in like the last month just because
of that small thing how do you
understand why such a small thing could
affect you so profoundly because I
joy in the sound cues when I you know
I'm rewarded for playing well and the
addiction sound cues and video games are
actually super big to me if if they're
like badly done or poorly quality no
matter how good the gameplay is or no
matter how good everything is the sound
is like a huge part of my gaming
experience
are you tired right now darkness a
little bit but I always sound like this
and what is like this
monotone Low Energy when you say always
where you like this as a kid depends on
what time as I was when I was a kid
I go ahead
I'm sorry you were saying thank you by
the way so your question is
am I always like this as a kid yeah
we're you always like this as a kid
um there's times where I was super
energetic but because I was teased and
bullied throughout my school years I
became more shy and had anxiety with
talking with people I was very awkward
what happened when you became monotone
with respect to the bullying um I think
that's just my natural voice for when I
came Molitor I get that I mean so you
it's interesting because you said I used
to get excited and then and then after
that sentence literally you said I would
get Boyd oh yeah and so it's strange for
those two sentences to come back to back
I'm very bad at explaining things and
telling stories but basically I'm not so
sure I agree with that but go ahead
um so throughout my school life I used
to be nice to all the kids in class
because I wanted to be funny I wanted to
make people laugh I want to make people
happy and there are some kids in my high
school that would take advantage of my
kindness even though I was like even
though I was like the biggest kid in
class I started to get bullied and out
of getting bullied I would get angry and
they would tell on the teacher and tell
me that I needed
ingor management because I would get mad
at them and yell back at them and so I
had I had anger management in elementary
school and I basically just used it as
an excuse to get out of class and so
I'll ask you again
okay what happened to the bullies when
you became monotone
I guess I has nothing to do if if I
interesting really so I think that I
don't think you're a bad storyteller I
just don't think you're consciously
aware of what you're saying so when you
say I'm a bad storyteller what I hear is
that these dots don't feel connected and
I shouldn't tell a more complete story
right you know yeah but actually I feel
like the dots are very connected what
we're what we're literally hearing so
let me tell you the story that I hear
here's a kid who's expressive and what
happens when he is expressive um I got
bullied and I got sad you got bullied
and you got saddened not just bullied
right what did when you expressed things
you got bullied and how did you respond
to that that bullying angry you and
that's expression mm-hmm and then when
you expressing so you expressed
something first the first time you get
bullied you express something else and
then what happens I got angry and then I
would get sad because I was angry and
then and then what are the teachers do
but he put me in anger management which
is a class that teaches you to do what
to control my anger and become monotone
see that uh yeah yeah like like
literally literally just think about
this for a second iris literally you
were put in a class that taught you how
to take what's on the inside and not
show it to the people on the outside oh
so that kind of like am i is that does
that sound like a stretch to you no that
makes sense yeah and and it's kind of
weird I mean it's like I couldn't get a
more perfect answer from you in terms of
the poll this guy was actually taught
this because it was weird cuz you said
so I think dyrus I don't think I mean
there are a couple of statements that
you made about you know that are a
little bit devaluing like I'm not a good
storyteller I don't think that
not a good storyteller I think that
there are things that your mind is
piecing together which consciously you
don't understand but I think you
understood this all along because you
you actually it's strange to say I used
to be an excited kid and I used to enjoy
making people laugh and then I got
bullied and I asked you a little bit
about like have you always been this way
and so your mind is already piecing
together
monotone monotone miss being excited as
a kid and getting bullied like those
three those three sentences are linked
in your mind in some way and you're just
not entirely sure how they fit together
and because you're not sure how they fit
together you can't tell a clear story
about it but if I ask you the stories
right there is that am I being too
abstract I'm sorry oh no no you're
you're completely correct that's that's
exactly how I am I'm not able to tell it
clearly because I don't think you
understand it clearly right so I think
that you know it but you don't
understand it and and and the answers
are there you just have to learn a
process of accessing them and now I'm
gonna share with you something that's
really kind of bizarre so this isn't I
could be completely wrong here but like
you're telling me that you're burnt out
right and you're telling me like when I
asked you originally about burnout you
said 12 hours a day for like five to
seven days a week and when I pressed you
a little bit further it's basically
gaming all day every day
TSM House pro gamer all this kind of
stuff but like it's weird because it's
like why the are you burnt out now
like when I my first answer your first
answer to when did you experience
burnout as you talked about something
that you haven't been a pro now for four
years right mm-hmm and and I'm not
saying that you aren't burnt out now I'm
just saying it's kind of strange that
your answer it's like oh yeah why are
you sad and someone says yeah you know I
had a I had a really a toxic
relationship four years ago and it's
like sure that probably has something to
do with it but it's strange that the
burnout has kind of lingered so long
does that make sense
hey oh good
I I guess that my my lifestyle from four
years ago the only thing that's change
is that instead of it being super high
skill and competitive and stressful and
being in a team environment and went
from that to just putting all my time
into streaming and at the same time it
took up my time which was good for me
but um I went through a lot of pain at
the end of the year cuz I I stopped
playing and I had a relationship where I
broke up end of the ears meaning which
year um end of my pro career okay
and when I stopped playing pro I broke
up so I felt a lot of pain during the
time and then I got over it
just one just a roller coaster of
emotions throughout the next years I
moved out of the TSM house i i i lived
with uh one of my former teammates i had
to learn how to take adult
responsibilities because i never i
always ignored all of that because the
team would take care of it paying rent
paying for sounder you sound like a
top laner let me just think
about it right the roller coaster being
done with the pro team moving out losing
your girlfriend you're alone
I think a lot of people can relate with
that so I think a little people can do
yeah but I yeah I am I do have the top
planar mentality yeah I know and he
would keep going at it and I didn't mean
to interrupt
oh so two men I'm sorry so I I moved
from the TSM house which was in LA to an
apartment near them and then I lived
there for two years and then I moved to
Austin Texas for two years and now I'm I
bought a house in Wichita Kansas and so
now I live in Wichita
which it's okay Kansas hmm do you feel
like you're left all alone oh no I
I've had a girlfriend for the last three
years sure I understand you have a
girlfriend do you feel like you've been
left all alone as like a player this
person or just do those words mean
something to you do they resonate with
how you feel
do I I feel like because I'm not a pro
anymore
I've learned that there's a lot of
people that lose interest in me because
I'm not pro which is understandable but
the ones that have pretended to be
closer than they really are have also
shown and I there's like there's like
three different phases of it the first
one is I'm a pro player lots of fans
people talk about me every day when I
was a pro confession here when I was a
pro I would do things like look up my
own name that's a that's something where
I enjoyed the intention the attention
and so that was the first phase I would
stop being pro the second phase was I
would I'm just a streamer I would I
retired I was still relevant as a
streamer and I kept streaming every day
and slowly as I played more and more I
let I cared less for the for being good
at the game and with that people also
started to care about me less and it
slowly became this thing where I was
scared of being irrelevant I was scared
of you know losing value of being
relevant and so I thought to myself for
a long time like what what matters to me
most and so it was hurting me and I so I
decided to quit League after a certain
point and then the last phase was still
trying to decide do I care about being
relevant or do I care about what's happy
like what's good for me but they're all
connected in some kind
way so it's just like it's like if you
behind your PC there's a bunch of cords
and it gets all over the place that's
how that's how I feel about my different
phases of life like it's just the cords
are just everywhere and I don't know how
to that's burnout buddy I'm gonna
tell you something doesn't sound
absolutely crazy I don't think it has to
do with your pro career I don't think
it's any of that I think it's all
the cords being untangled I think life
is overwhelming like you don't know what
to do you don't know what's gonna make
you feel good you don't know what you
should do you don't know how to make
money you don't know how to have fun I
ask you do you feel like you're left all
alone and then you say I have a
girlfriend and then I ask you the same
damn question again I'm not trying to
beat you up here
right myself at any point no no
you're completely fine and then you say
I have a girlfriend and then I ask you
do you feel left alone and you're like
I'm not sure what that means then I ask
you a third time do those words sit with
you and you say yes and there we see
your confusion because you're like in
some part of your mind you're thinking
to yourself I shouldn't feel this way
because I have a girlfriend like in what
where is feeling alone come from because
I've done the things I'm in Wichita I
have some real friends I recognize I
don't I have some fake friends I figured
out who those are because you're solving
so many problems like you're doing so
good right and that's why it's so
confusing you've moved to
Wichita you figured out sort of what
you're gonna do for your mental health
you've got this girlfriend you're
playing Valerie it's it's a lot of fun
and like you're you're checking all the
boxes but like you feel wrong you feel
alone and burnt out and like there's a
lot of tangled up behind the
computer and you don't know what plugs
into what and what goes where in which
cord does what you know it's all there
in some way but it's just not fit
together yeah
completely agree what are you feeling
right now
a bit of relief well maybe a tear in my
eye a little happy I guess
your daughter that one yeah hmm
sensitive to sound huh yeah I am
sensitive to sound yeah I see that I
think you're a really sensitive guy what
do you think I've been told that a lot
but I've always tried to put up the
front of you know I'm holding it down
yeah monotone I hold it in a law huh I
don't think this is burnout
I think it's bourbon bourbon cuz here's
here's what was confusing to me right is
that you say okay I ask you the first
question and and really I'm not trying
to say you're stupid or anything I'm
just pointing out what your mind is
doing okay so just try to pay attention
I asked you like about burnout your
first thing is you talk about life is a
pro and that was four years ago
which is that the source of your burnout
and then you say well I sort of
continued that lifestyle I wake up every
day I still do all this kind of stuff
okay so like maybe it's the lifestyle
maybe it's streaming and you were like
yeah but I've placed programming with
streaming that makes sense to streamers
get burnt out all the time and then
comes the really confusing thing which
is that you say I took a break for three
months and it helped a little now that's
really confusing because if it's the pro
gaming and if it's the streaming and you
took a break from it then that should
help a lot so either you're doing your
standard thing where you sort of
downplay the impact of things you say a
little bit like you say maybe a tear in
my eye right you have this tendency to
use like small words mm-hmm
so maybe it's that but I think I think
it just it's a clue that it's not
actually those environments and I know
this sounds completely crazy but I think
you carry the burnout with you and I
think that one of the most confusing
things about being a human being
especially when you've been entrained to
not feel what you feel on the inside and
if you really want to understand this we
have to talk about your internship with
your dad's company okay right and I
think we've got a lot there but but that
you're a guy who has taken what you feel
and you
shafted aside for the sake of other
things for the sake of not getting in
trouble in class you've taken your
excitement in your joy and you put them
aside because of your fear of bullying
you've taken your frustration when
people bully you and you try to defend
yourself and then the teacher like
brings down your neck and then you got
put in an anger management class and
those kids are like you dyrus you
suck and then you're not allowed to say
anything and you become a pro player
we're like no one cares that you're
tired no one cares that you're left all
alone in the top light in a shitty
meta where it's to be one top
like no one cares they're like
liars yeah that is the general
idea but I don't want I want to say this
because that would be disrespectful
towards of people that have cared for me
like there are a lot of people have
supported me in my community that have
watched me for a long time and have
supported me for a long time so I don't
want to forget about sharing coz it's so
easy to focus on the negative yeah so
I'm I'm so let me be clear I'm glad you
said that I'm not trying to paint
everyone with a bad brush although I am
doing exactly that the reason that I'm
doing that is because I'm amplifying
because you're suppressive mm-hm so I'm
gonna blow things out of proportion
okay and then I think somewhere in the
middle between you downplaying things
and me like up playing things we're
gonna arrive at somewhere near the truth
which is not that it's it's not that
it's your your kids I mean they're your
parents teammates Mike my kid is
shouting my name in the background but
my it's not your teammates fault that
the meta is that way but I think it
still speaks to I think they're hunting
for her because she's looking for me and
she usually wants nothing here but I I
think somewhere along this is like it's
the feeling of being left all alone
right and there's something about a
feeling there's something about a burden
that you carry with you there's
something about what you feel in terms
of burnout that actually is not because
you're a pro player
or because you're a streamer because if
you took a three-month break that should
have made a big difference if that's the
source of it so this is the really crazy
thing is that when we think about life
and we think about why we feel the way
that we do we tend to attribute the way
that we feel to external things you say
the reason I'm burnt out is because I
was a pro is because I'm a streamer you
know the reason that I'm unhappy is
because my wife doesn't do XYZ or my
girlfriend doesn't care about me enough
for the reason that I feel alone is
because I don't have a girlfriend right
I feel so lonely because I have no one
to love and no one loves me and all this
kind of and then the funny thing is
that you've done some of those things
that are supposed to make those feelings
go away and then it's kind of confusing
and then you end up with all the cords
behind your PC because this is how
you're supposed to feel and I'm sure
that you do feel I mean I'm not sure but
I imagine you feel loved and appreciated
by your girlfriend and all that stuff
like you have all the positive things in
the relationship that the girlfriend is
supposed to give you and yet you still
feel left alone and that's exactly my
point it's not the girlfriend it's not
that you are pro player it's not that
you're a streamer this is something that
you carry within you it's something you
carried for a long time and now this is
kind of cool because what this means
it's kind of cool and it's kind of
crappy because on the one hand you don't
have to change anything in the outside
world you don't have to be a pro again
you know what this means is that you are
not you are not forced into playing
something for your fans or your money or
whatever like you can if you need money
and streaming is the way that you're
gonna get it that's fine but the
feelings that you have inside are not
controlled by what happens on the
outside so the cool thing is like that
should be a little bit liberating and it
should also be really really confusing
because then like what the are they
controlled by really any thoughts so far
are we good questions I I feel like
the three-month break I I feel like one
of the reasons why it didn't really help
as much but helped a little bit was
because I don't know how to take a break
one of the things my girlfriend has
mentioned to me is that I should try and
find another hobby because my mind is so
reliant on playing games and because all
other than playing games all only other
thing I do is watch anime or read manga
or watch TV shows and um I can't I can't
really find anything else that holds me
up the same way for example when the
Valerii change happened I was having a
really shitty day and I don't know
there's not my favorite TV shows there
there's no episodes out I don't know
what to watch like what it was yeah so
we're gonna talk about dopamine
exhaustion and and how your brain may
really not be helping you right now but
I want to point something else out to
you I don't know how to take a break is
that something in the outside world or
is that something on the inside is that
within you were that something in the
environment I think that's mostly within
me because if I had if I had to choose
like my parties and life like gaming is
like top three sure pop - what does that
have to do with not knowing how to take
a break so I don't I don't know
do to feel relaxed I guess okay I
beautiful sentence okay and therein lies
our problem what to do to feel okay
we're gonna help you out dyrus I'm gonna
try so I'm gonna give you another
sentence I should learn a new hobby is
that something on the inside or
something on the outside it's something
told from now
and it's something that on the inside
it's like yeah I should do that but then
I though a hobby is external right
like like the point here is that you
don't know how to take a break and say
your girlfriend says learn a hobby but
like and I'm gonna say the last thing so
now here's the beautiful sentence I
don't know what to do to feel relaxed so
that implies that your relaxation comes
from something on the outside does that
make sense I don't know what to do to
feel relaxed yes I think that is
accurate right so the the thing the
hypothesis that I'm asking you to
entertain is that you were looking for
far too many solutions on the outside
and if we look at it like the more that
we look at your problem you say I'm
burnt out because I was a pro player I'm
burnt out because I'm a streamer but
then if we want to be really scientific
about it then removing those things
should relieve your burnout but when you
did that for three months it didn't
really relieve your burn out and in fact
when you did that so that didn't work
and then when we asked you why it's
because I don't know how to take a break
that's the answer the answer is it that
you should find something else to
distract you and you kind of say like
okay I need an anime or manga or
whatever but like the point is that you
have things to distract you you have
shows you can play valent you know how
to engage your mind
but despite engaging your mind and
watching anime and and and reading manga
and playing valent and whatever you
still carry this feeling of being left
alone of feeling burnt out like that's
something you carry within you and no
amount of doing any outside is ever
gonna fix that like finding a new hobby
is not going to fix that it's just gonna
teach you to be distracted from it like
do you see how your mind moves from
distraction - distraction you have to
rotate because as the dopamine from
valence starts to get like like as you
build up tolerance from the dopamine
release from Valerie you have to move to
anime and then you build up tolerance to
that and then you have to move to manga
and then you build up tolerance to that
and then you you you cross your fingers
and you hope that by the time you burn
through your three there's something you
can watch
Netflix and by the time you burn through
that by then your dopamine will have
like recalibrated with valent you can go
back to square one
mm-hmm and what we see is a generation
of people that move from distraction to
the distraction - distraction YouTube
reddit twitch gaming YouTube reddit
twitch gaming our anime manga D&D I
can't tell you how many times that I
catch myself just clicking on Twitter
over and over Twitter list just our
society is like yeah man you want you
want another hit like let me show you
Twitter let me show you read it like
here man like oh yeah that cocaine is
really good actually really try a
speedball toss some heroin in there a
little bit of tic toc I've told a lot of
my friends this that so in Hawaii
there's a lot of drug trafficking and
every person I knew had some kind of
connection to drugs and when I was in
middle school now sad I got peer
pressured into trying some drugs and I
had tried a bunch of drugs and I always
told my friend I asked my friends do you
know what the number one drug of the
mall for me is and the reason why I
don't do drugs
it's just video games video games is my
strongest addictions that you don't do
drugs
you just don't ingest substances big
difference yeah what we're addicted to
is avoidance right it's like all these
things and like I'm with you man like
you know my dopamine gets going - it's a
beautiful story but I think that dyerson
that your answers are not it's like
nothing on the outside man it's all on
the inside and this is a good person
oh yeah go ahead so what do i what do i
do yeah like that's the best question to
ask it's a great question okay so the
answer unfortunately is a little bit
complex but the second but the first
thing is that you've done a big part
today like because just in realizing
like you know that the answer is not on
the outside is gonna be huge because I
think so far for most of your life
you've been looking for answers on the
outside mmm-hmm and I think I mean in
some ways it's gonna feel it's gonna be
easier than you think it is but you
can't really do it which makes it hard I
know it sounds kind of weird and I know
I I completely understand that statement
so please explain it to us because it's
like when you see someone do something
it's easier said than done because
there's so many complex things that go
into it some people just have a knack
for it I just understand certain parts
of it and for others it's it can be
something as simple as like whistling
you know you some people just naturally
can whistle and when I was little I
can't I can't whistle now I can never
whistle but for some people seem simple
but maybe there's some kind of feeling
in my mouth for shape that I'm supposed
to make to whistle but I can't do it
because I don't I just doesn't click
with me it's a beautiful example so
here's the thing I think whistling is
the perfect example so I think it's like
whistling in the sense that you got a
try and you got a try and you got a try
and then one day you're gonna do it
that's really how it works and and
that's why you know people talk about
enlightenment you've heard of
enlightenment it's like you know in the
Buddhists and Hindus talk about it a
fair amount je n'ai I'm sorry could you
repeat that you're familiar with the
concept of enlightenment yay or nay you
know your problem like Buddhism yes yet
missionary Christian like being stuck in
a closet for two hours I see who you
really are I like that something like
that there's this idea that like you
know people reach this moment of
realization where they discover their
true self and then they feel like
they're blissful and happy and and
they're suffering all goes away and
like that and I think that the
was like realization comes in moments
right I'm sure there have been times in
your life or like if you think about
your pro league career we're in the
process of becoming a pro like one day
something clicked for you and then you
understood something that you didn't
understand for and then you became
better because of it does that make
sense
I understand the concept yeah okay
and so the tricky thing about you know
how do you learn to take a break which
is I think what you need to do you know
it's it's hard it's kind of like
whistling you just have to keep trying
at it for a while and then you'll kind
of like you'll hit upon it one day and I
can give you some I'll give you some
more structured answer than that okay
okay
I don't know there is one thing that
I've been missing this entire time that
I wanted to mention that's also caused
all this so when he offends there's
negative reactions and positive
obviously but I think one of the things
that causes me to be stressed out and
irritated as when I stream or maybe go
post something on Twitter there's like
twitch Ted you know how twitch attack
can get it under everyone's skin maybe
someone asks the same question you've
been as hearing for four months a good
example is when I when I stopped playing
League of Legends several years ago I
kept that getting asked play League when
are you playing league and I put out
like two videos I put a command for it
I've expressed it so many times and I
get told the like I swear to God if
there was a command that triggered every
time I've been asked the same question
of the common question of when are you
gonna play league right now the common
question is are you and your girlfriend
still together that one's the common one
now but I swear to god it it's been
asked that at least in the five digits
amount of times and that that is
something that really just gets to me
and I've been trying to gnome out what
gets to you about that let's talk about
that
for sharing by the way yeah I wanted I
felt like something was missing in all
this yo you're absolutely right and I
wonder if twitch a can figure out what
it is what bothers you about that
don't look at twitch chat by the way
they're pretty good at this by now i i
have twitch chat off I made sure to not
have it on this entire time no Matt home
yeah of course not um so when I first
became quote-unquote a pro famous I
didn't see myself as it but people come
up for autographs like you know I'm
happy to answer all the questions talk
to them but after a long time it's like
I still do like doing it a little bit as
long as people are happy I'm happy but
the constant questioning of the same
thing over and over just just gets to me
and I start to act more negatively
negatively and let's say someone asked
how are you doing and instead of being
like I could easily just be like fine I
end up ignoring it or maybe if I'm in a
bad mood I act negatively so let's just
let's forget about your reaction let's
rewind a little bit
they risk and ask and ask how does that
make you feel dyrus when they asked over
and over and over again it's really
irritated bitter and I guess being asked
the
question over and over and having to
answer it over and over again what's
irritating about that what does that
mean what kind of question gets why do
you have to answer something over and
over and over again because if I'm
streaming I feel like I should interact
with my chat sure that's why you're
streaming but let's just think about
this for a second okay like what's let
me just think about whether I want to
just tell you or trying to walk you to
it because I don't know how to ask the
questions the right way
so I'll ask you this Cyrus has there
been a time in your life when people
didn't listen all the time I actually
I'm actually a very special case for
that there's been many instances where
I've said things and not not just people
asking the same question over and over
but just like even people that I know
even in a competitive environment when
I'll say something and it's just
completely ignored in throughout my
career I want to go under the age how
old are you now tires if you don't mind
me asking
I am 20th alright so we're gonna go back
to 18 or the the latest I'm gonna let
you go as to when you quit your
internship or you got fired tell me
about how you were not listened to
before
I'm thinking about it though it has
happened um I guess the easiest example
I can think of is I've had friends who
became in relationships and I was always
in the middle of it I guess I would
because I was good friends with both of
them so I'd kind of be like in the
twilight zone
and I would tell them certain things
like if you do this this is gonna happen
or you shouldn't do this it's this is
gonna happen and they don't listen
just like whoa what was the point of
saying in the first place
you know why I ask me if you're not
gonna listen and I've had that situation
a lot in many different scenarios is
luck is is in the twilight zone does
that feel like left all alone
not not really that's fine about it add
as much I'm just trying to understand
what by what what you meant by that term
not everything has so connected by the
way yeah okay you know yes so let me ask
you can I ask you a couple questions
yeah can you tell me about how you ended
up can you tell me a little bit about
growing up in Hawaii um so I grew up and
a
I had my mom dad grandma auntie and
cousin living in the same house we lived
right across like a college and a school
um growing up my dad gave me the belt
cuz I what happened was that I drew
you know those videotape cassettes I
threw one at my cousin and she was
laughing so I was like oh she likes this
so I threw another one she started
bleeding crying and then I got the belt
cuz yeah I was dumb kid but I'm Hillary
I was like three years old three four
years old and so growing up in that
household
my grandma would babysit me the video
games that my parents bought for me
babysit me I guess I kind of bullied my
cousin a little bit at the start but
then I stopped I was actually kind of a
mean kid growing up so that when when it
came to some things but I immediately
stopped after a certain point like there
was a time where I his thing yeah go
ahead
oh there there was a time where I've now
now I think back on it I was kind of
mean but I never was like trying to be
mean it was just I was just saying or
doing whatever I felt like I was more
free as a kid uh what did what did you
wanna say why do kids why are kids mean
I mean aside from the general fact that
all all kids are me cuz I didn't
know anything I don't know any
boundaries
the only boundaries i falled were the
rules that were set to me mm-hmm
let me ask you something do kids do
something big so when a kid speaks and
this is gonna be sounded kind of a
stupid question so it may not even make
sense when a kid speaks is a kid able to
speak because
know something or because they don't
know something they just do because I
want to sure but the capacity of speech
for a child is that because of something
that a child knows or because of a child
what a child doesn't know because they
know how to speak right so like if I
have a if I have a kid that goes peepee
on the potty versus peepee somewhere
else like is it because the kid knows
where to go peepee or kind of doesn't
know know where to go peepee I'm being
your kid here yes it's a dumb question
so I'll just be instead of asking you
questions I'm just gonna say it so I
think kids are taught things right kids
do what they're taught to do that's how
kids learn
so like you know if you're a mean kid I
don't think that's because you didn't
know better any better I think it's
actually exactly the opposite it's
because that's what you knew mmm-hmm
does that make sense like kids do things
so like you know I've worked with kids
that will so I one time worked with a
kid that would tear holes in stuffed
animals and put pieces of candy inside
the butthole that it would make for the
child I mean so they would make a bottle
in a stuffed animal and it would soft
candy in there or why do you think that
kid does that like a three and a half
year old the story may be making a
pinata no it's because someone did that
to that child oh yeah that was a very
that makes sons yeah yeah how do you
feel
right now diners um just one of those
extreme examples it kind of reminds me
of uh when destiny makes those extreme
examples it's kind of token back I guess
you know do you think about you being a
mean kid
you know I guess I would
I didn't know anything but after what we
said it doesn't seem like to be the
right thing to say
yeah absolutely I know it doesn't feel
that way to you but remember that like
what we're the whole theme of this
conversation dyrus is that things don't
appear to make sense for you for you
even though you understand them mm-hmm
right even when we think about like
burnout and when we think about you know
I think well there are a lot of things
here that you understand that I just
don't think you know you understand and
I'm not surprised at all you were a mean
kid and I knew you were gonna be a mean
kid the second you said two words give
you any any idea what those words are
maybe twitch chat knows when I get
irritated when people repeat themselves
nope the belt okay how do you understand
what am I trying to say
any idea
because I got the belt at a young age
that caused me to be afraid and I'm not
just afraid buddy no no you're missing
this so like you got the belt and what
was your dad being to you in that moment
mean to me absolutely
so kids learn what they're taught okay
right rude and I think I think it's
weird because you say I used to be a
mean kid until one day I woke up and I
wasn't anymore
and I think that's the day that you
started to think for yourself in some
way but I think you were just doing like
you were throwing objects at someone and
you thought it was fun until they
started getting hurt and like you didn't
understand any better right like you you
just it's so interesting that you
remember you have such a clear memory as
a three-year-old because I don't know if
you know this but like three olds don't
really have good memory I I have a few
plate I remember standing on the scale
and I'm being like oh I'm 50 pounds how
three years old and birth oh I think
three is when I started to be conscious
of things and I think well they're
written conscious i-i thinkt one of the
reasons why i remember a lot is because
i played video games and i remember a
lot of video games well that's I don't
maybe that's not it I I think that I can
remember video a lot of video games
because I was I played a lot of video
games yeah so I think I don't I think
it's the other way around I think you're
you're demonstrating that you had
memories way clear of video games at a
very young age right so so
anything you just remember videogames
because you became conscious at a very
young age it's not the other way around
video games aren't the causative factor
it's just that yeah yeah yeah yes yes I
mean and so I I'm hearing that you learn
yeah I mean so when you weighed yourself
at the age of three and you were 50
pounds how did you treat yourself and
how did other people treat you they
didn't mean anything it's just a memory
okay can I just think for a second oh go
ahead
you
darris I'm not getting the sense that
we're gonna be able to tie this up with
a nice neat and bow program in the next
30 minutes I mean there are many
questions that I want to ask I think
we're getting on the important stuff but
like we can just get to the points like
the stuff that really matters well I
mean I think all of this really matters
I'm just I'm just not sure we're gonna
you know so in my mind the tying up the
bow is in teaching you how to take a
break it's about helping you be more in
tune with your internal environment it's
about not suppressing the things that
you feel and making sense of things that
you don't understand it's a tall order I
just don't think it can be accomplished
in the next 30 minutes alright and I
think that there's just so much here
that is like low-hanging fruit like I
don't think you appreciate all right I
would love it if you could learn to
appreciate or explore I mean I could be
wrong here that let me put it this way
so I think you feel the way that you do
because it's not burn like you carry the
burn out with you it's not because of an
external thing it's because of an
internal thing I think you get
frustrated with people because you
haven't been listened to and like I can
imagine a child in so many situations
that you've described being frustrated
because they aren't listened to I can
imagine when your dad pulls out the belt
you try to explain to him I thought she
was having fun and him not giving a
like I I can see your genuine confusion
I could imagine a three-year-olds
genuine confusion or not even having the
words to be able to say that but just
like trying to explain to like your dad
as he like pulls off the belt that like
you didn't mean to write because you
remember that you remember that she was
laughing and you remember why you threw
it again and you remember that there was
no malice in your heart and you got beat
for it and that you had a different side
of the story and then we can
fast-forward a grade-school when
my kids make fun of you and they bully
you and then you fight back and then the
teacher comes over they go red they they
provoke you and they bully you and then
they go tell on you and the teacher
comes over and then what do you try to
do you try to explain and you say no
they started it
and the teacher doesn't listen then we
also get this complex that you've been
showing us a little bit of about like
how you're not good with your words and
you don't understand like you know you
said that a couple of times like I'm not
being clear or something like that
mm-hmm
and I and I think that somewhere along
the way like you started to feel like
people don't listen to you and then we
know this because I'll ask you these
questions I'll be like you know I sort
of asked you know a bunch of different
ways and then I said dyrus do you feel
like you have them and listened to and
you're like all the time and if it's all
the time do you see how that means that
you carry it with you it's been with you
all along if it's all the time it's not
an external environment it's you does
that make sense yes that makes homes and
and so the and and then when we think
about being burnt out it's like there's
a sense of confusion about your life and
and there's a sense of being left all
alone and I don't know where that comes
from but I think that I mean I think it
comes back to like this story I mean I
think we're gonna find a lot I mean I
don't really know but the story that you
described to me about your your dad and
his company like can you just tell us
that like what happened in high school
and and and it sounds like you got I
mean when you say you got the belt so it
sounds like that wasn't a one-time
occurrence oh it was only one time it
was only one time it's interesting yeah
okay um okay
so in other ways um I mean sometimes I
got yelled at for doing dumb things
sounds pretty normal
Oh in third in third grade you took me
into or he put me in baseball cuz uh you
know it'd be good
give me a hobby growing up just give me
a sports early maybe I could be an X
homerun hero you know I'll go MLB but um
so we went to baseball practice and all
our teammates weren't there like they're
there at another basketball game
watching like friends or family be in a
basketball game and we were there and we
forgot they told us and so I showed my
dad my math homework and I thought it
was right but he said it was wrong and
so we got irritated me for half-assing
it which I always did I always have
asked things a lot but I would always do
them and he's like all right boy let's
let's play catch you know and so I
played catch with him and my form was
like a little off I also was scared of
the ball because when the baseballs
being thrown at you I just you know a
flinch I'm not as used to it I'm scared
of being hit sure and so he got here at
8:00 he got irritated that I was
flinching the story's probably clear
from him but basically he was irritated
at me because I was flinching I wasn't
you know thrown the ball right kind of
being a and one time he threw it
hard and it hit my left eye and I got a
bruise on my left eye and I and I I fell
over and I remember the lying when he
talks about today's like damn boy I
thought I killed you I was scared to
death and he told me that he learned a
life lesson there and he started to be
nicer after that but
yeah that I really hurt hit getting hit
by baseball in the eye so that was that
was another time where he was I mean
harangue angry to me but he he he
actually learned something like a big
thing about that dyrus you're laughing
what's funny about that because when we
talk about it my dad laughs about it and
I think about it as a as a vent were I I
didn't cry I was just like in pain and
dyrus was me about it it's just the
thing I can look back on just as an
event wow he looks so terrified I say
like that because I don't I'm asked a
question and you're not giving me an
answer and so I'm bludgeoning to you
here are my baseball's what's funny
about it
I'm not sure he's a lot sister it seems
funny to me about on now on yeah so let
me tell you the story that I heard yeah
there's this one time yeah I took my
third grade kid out to the out to play
baseball and that that dumbass hadn't
done is his math homework right and so
he was like he's such a he
like didn't know how to catch and so I
threw the ball at him and I threw harder
and harder and harder knees flinch I
okay and then and then I I popped him in
the head and boy I almost killed him and
then I learned my lesson so I think I
think what was funny to me is because my
dad for the first time in my life I
realized that my dad was super scared
from it and that's something I that's a
side I've never seen him I am super
scared of what God
thought he really hurt like killed me or
something you know you're telling me for
that for the first time in your life in
the third grade you saw a sign from your
dad that he cared about you know he God
that just makes me feel so bad thinking
about that way I understand remember I'm
amplifying because you're doing yeah
right right so so dyrus here's what I
want you to notice okay okay you can
feel like a bad person for thinking or
saying those things and I may be
amplifying right like I may not be
characterizing it like please you
haven't told me the thousand stories
about your dad when he did demonstrate
the scary I don't think your dad was an
mm-hmm okay but like I want you
to just notice notice the stories that
you're saying is the story that you told
me is not funny
when your dad tells that story the lack
of this the fact that he laughs is also
not funny like that's not funny man I
understand that we laugh at it and
there's a very good reason that we laugh
at it we laugh at it because humor is a
defense mechanism and because sometimes
when things become morbid we laugh
because that's the only way that we
can't deal with it but the problem is
that like you know your dad laughs
because it makes him uncomfortable but I
really do think that there's something a
little bit like there's something a
little bit off about this whole picture
right there's there's something a little
bit off about it you know you laughing
because your dad was scared of hurting
you like what the it's
and and I'm not a few yeah go ahead okay
um you can continue so I I'm not saying
I'm not saying that I'm painting a
picture of reality and I'm not trying to
shame you and I understand if you feel
guilt or shame or that sounds bad and I
understand that like most parents are
like not perfect and I'm sure that your
dad loved you and I'm sure that in a lot
of ways he was a good dad and he tried
his best and like all that kind of stuff
I'm not trying to turn him into a demon
but I am pointing out that I think
something in your life left a couple of
scars oh yeah my my parents were
divorced I forgot to mention that okay
sure
and and what I see in you today is
because I like my whole point here so
like I'm gonna try to sort of wrap
things together okay not to say that
we're done because I don't know how to
how you fix this but here's the first
thing that I'm noticing that your
burnout sure has a lot to do with your
lifestyle and stuff like that but that's
some of your burnout you carry with you
it's like it's on the inside it's not on
the outside and that no amount of
hobbies anime gaming Netflix or
girlfriends because it sounds like you
do pretty well for yourself
I am very first of all probably kind of
thing yeah but no amount of that stuff
is gonna make that go away because
you've been like that's like a statement
of science like it's a statement of
empiricism because you've tried it all
right you've tried three-month breaks
you've tried watching anime you've found
a really fun game you have a girlfriend
you're doing all of the things that
should make the feelings go away but
they don't go away so the first thing to
understand is that burnout is coming
from here not something on the outside
okay and what is burnout the two themes
that I'm hearing from you are feeling
forced to play feeling forced into
things and that I think is tied to
people not listening I think somewhere
along the way like you sort of learned
the lesson that people don't listen and
it hurts and so you've got to go back
and you've got to explore that hurt like
when people should have listened and
they did
when riot listen didn't lists they
should have listened and they didn't
right when your teammates should have
listened and they didn't when
twitch chat should have listened because
you've answered a thousand times and
they didn't and you're gonna see this
pop up because I can predict that the
conflict that you have with your
girlfriend is about her not listening I
think I don't want to get
deep into the bat because uh yeah but I
I I want to say that we feel differently
about things sure and I all I I just
want to clarify that yes this a lot
everything you just said yeah I feel
that way but I just want to clarify that
I'm also not the perfect human being
we're not talking about her being right
or wrong and we're not talking about
whether she does listen or she doesn't
listen what I'm saying is that you were
sensitive to people not listening and
that you were going to perceive y'all's
conflict in early in your relationship
is her not listening or anytime that she
doesn't listen that's going to hurt you
more because you're already wounded
there does that make sense it's not even
gonna be like like it's reasonable for
her to not listen sometimes like
partners aren't perfect but what I'm
saying is that you've kind of got like a
particular vulnerability like that's the
in your armor right that's that's
your weak spot that's where you get
critically hit okay you're critical hits
are around people not listening feeling
forced into things that you don't want
to do and feeling left all up and those
are the things that we've heard you in
some way kind of talk about when I ask
you you know maybe when have you not
been listened to in your like all the
time right so that tells us like
that's a weak spot and that's where you
get critically hit and so as you go
through life but the problem here is
that anytime we get critically hit we
look on the outside and we say like oh
man that weapon hurts a lot but the
problem isn't that the weapon is
critically hitting you the problem is
that you have a weak spot it's not about
the weapon it's about you I think I kind
of create that weak spot sometimes you
absolutely create that weak spot that's
my whole point
okay excellence is that this stuff you
carry with you and comes from within you
and that no amount of finding a hobby is
gonna keep you from creating that weak
spot and this is the really tricky thing
because you actually have control over
this you
absolutely create it and that also gives
you power right if you're responsible
for something if it's truly your fault
and this is a big problem that people do
right as we blame things for we blame
ourselves for things that were not
empowered for like it's like either you
have the power we feel powerless and we
blame ourselves those two things cannot
fit together those two things don't work
together if it's your fault then you had
the power and if you're powerless it's
not your fault but that's not what we
tell ourselves we play this a really
up game where we're like we blame
ourselves for this but we feel like
we're powerful us know and so I do think
you can control it I mean control it in
the sense of I think you need to heal it
it needs healing right it doesn't it's
not like and so the question is how so I
think the first thing that I would say
is notice that look for these three
things in your life and notice when they
pop up are you feeling left are you
feeling like a top laner is this
the top lane all over again well
you're trying to do stuff and like
you're trying to pay bills and no one's
helping you pay bills and you're
supposed to take care of this and you're
supposed to take care of that and you've
been left out in the wind that's a
feeling you should look for number two
feeling is like wonder when do people
not listen so look for those things just
notice them within yourselves and as you
notice them recognize that those may or
may not be applicable to the actual
situation that some of this is coming
from you it's not actually that the you
know the dagger is like an a piece of
epic gear it's that you have a weak spot
like it's not like the problems aren't
in the external world they're in here
and the first thing you've got to do is
train yourself to look within instead of
look outside okay
second thing is to think back to where
that that weakness became exposed
because you have to go back to like when
this started like so when are the times
in your life and you did a good job
today like when were you not listened to
right and I'll ask you questions like
when else was your dad mean to you I
would imagine that the belt was used a
couple of times you're like no one
actually wasn't surprising but fine
right sometimes the belt is a one time
thing and then you laughed and you're
like oh by the way and so
your mind is linking that to your dad
being mean even though you say it while
you're laughing and he laughs about it
and you even sort of demonstrate like
that he cared about you after that and
was nicer to you so even though that
story has a positive spin you gave me
that answer when I asked about your dad
being me so there's some part of your
mind that equates your dad being mean
there and the more that I push you on
that you're like yeah you're making me
feel like an and you're making
me my dad look like an and then
you feel protective and defensive which
is fine but my point is the story isn't
funny right what jokes are funny
like dr. Kaiser boomer hahaha that's
funny
right like memes like I also Google
myself but the reason I googled myself
is because people make fun of me and
they just do a really good job and I
think it's actually where these people
are very creative yeah that shit's funny
getting hit in the face with a baseball
by your dad who's pissed at you for
being a that's not funny
and so somewhere along the way like you
become disconnected from your internal
environment that - you've got to like
reconnect with like you've got to you
know get in touch with your feelings bro
you know cuz there's a lot there and
then like last thing is like you should
think about seeing a therapist if you
aren't already
yeah I've I've been I'm actually been
connected with one that I'm going to
start good doing yeah and something that
I told him well that him but my
girlfriend told me to do also and I
don't think that I definitely should do
and and so I it's like work on this
stuff right like start to talk about
those things and start to talk about how
you feel because end of the day I don't
think you have to live a life where you
feel burnt out and the last thing which
we don't have kind of too much time to
talk about is I think your brain has a
lot of signs of dopamine exhaustion
which is like when when you sort of get
hit with dopamine time and time and time
again through extensive years of game
and stuff like that stuff can feel blase
monotone or less fun and and then I you
know I I think that like doing something
like a dopamine fast may be a good idea
or like a dopamine cleanse
what are you kind of like you can really
recalibrate your brain and then the last
thing that you can do is and I've talked
about that before on stream like it's on
YouTube and stuff and I'll give people
more details about that but the last
thing that you can do is meditate and if
you want to learn some meditation I can
teach you today okay you have it all
greens with meditation I've been told to
try it before and I feel like I've
pretended to do it but I'd never really
you know I feel like giving it a shot
today or maybe pretending or do you want
to bow out oh no
I'll try whatever the her hmm actually
there are cases reports of meditation
induced psychosis so but I don't think
that's gonna happen with you I hope no
yeah but yeah so let's let me just think
I want to
technique that I think is gonna be a
little bit hard to learn because it
feels super awkward but I feel like it's
the right technique for you is it okay
if I we try that yeah I'm gonna teach
you something called bellows breath okay
so if you need to blow your nose you can
start by blowing your nose I can't but
so I want you to sit up straight and I'm
gonna demonstrate once okay so what I'm
gonna do is take 30 breaths I'm gonna do
30 strong exhalations where I push the
air out and then I'm gonna kind of have
like a super quick and shallow
inhalation and then I'm gonna push it
out again push it out again push it out
out again so I'm gonna like basically
forcefully exhale 30 times so I'll just
demonstrate and then let me know if you
understand it it's gonna feel weird but
I'll just start
that makes sense forcefully
excelling 30 times yeah we're out in it
without inhale you have to inhale right
okay exhale without inhaling yeah but
the emphasis is gonna be on the exhale
so what I'm gonna ask you to do is let's
try five breaths where you kind of boom
boom boom boom boom that's what I want
you to do so
close your eyes forcefully exhale good
right so now we're gonna do it again
that's perfect
even it'll out a little bit right so you
went boom boom boom boom boom
so do try to make it even five more in
that order or just just making it even
just make it even okay okay good
so you're noticing that the breath is
gonna go a little bit more shallow as
you go towards the end so now I want you
to space them out just a little bit
don't go quite as fast five more a
little bit slower okay good any history
of asthma
No okay so now we're gonna do 15 okay
and just focus on one two and go at that
pace that you just went oh girl
okay I might've lost count that's okay
don't worry about it losing counts
perfectly fine so how do you feel right
now do you feel silly or anything no I
just feel fine okay so now what I'm
gonna tell you to do now we're gonna
really learn the practice okay so now I
want you to go for 20 breaths and if you
lose count actually you just you just
breathe I'm just gonna let you know it's
gonna be about 20 breaths and I'll tell
you when to stop and what what the real
practices is after the 20 breaths you're
gonna enter a space in your mind that I
want you to just sit in and notice that
last breath after you're done with the
practice you're naturally gonna take a
breath and just be completely in that
breath as much as possible okay
that's focus so you giving me the cue or
I'm gonna give you the cue I'm gonna
tell you when to stop and I want you to
leave your eyes closed I'm gonna tell
you when to open your eyes again and
just sit in the space after the practice
and whatever comes up let it come up
try not to engage with your thoughts so
if you have a thought that's fine but
then just like let it go and just focus
on the way that you feel okay okay it
sounds kind of weird until you do it
alright so close your eyes deep breath
in and begin
good
and now we're gonna begin again 20 more
I'll keep count and I'll count down from
5 4 3 2 1 to signal the end and keep
your eyes closed and sit with that last
breath let's begin again 5 4 3 2 1
that's it
one last time 20 breaths I'll count down
from five go ahead and start five four
three two one
now I want you to take a deep breath in
for three seconds and out for three
in four five and not four five
and now in four seven and out for seven
slow slow slow
and you're ready open your eyes come on
back to us tears
you
we feel
feel like I took a nap and
woke up why did you feel like you were
asleep
what is that
it kind of felt similar to the tingling
sensation of dreaming why do we why do
we describe meditation like sleep right
it's kind of weird what was your mind
doing during that practice try not
anything and what are you trying to not
think about anything or were you not
thinking about anything
I think that I would
imagining like a background and that was
a what do you mean by imagining a
background space
learn to like a view of a sunset just
imagining backgrounds and thinking of
nothing else okay yes I I think you know
it's interesting because people often
say like what she said they use sleep or
dreaming to kind of describe it it's
because this our conscious mind which we
operate with most of the time being on
actually turns off for a little while
and that's why we call it sleep you
weren't to sleep but it feels like you
took a nap right there's some amount of
rejuvenation but the most important
thing is that it sounds like you stepped
outside of your mind for at least a
little while for moments here there and
in my experience of this practice that
first breath after the 20 exhalation is
like very very soothing calming and kind
of like outside of mind I kind of get
enveloped or wrapped up in that breath
does that make any sense or your
experience could have been different
everyone sort of experiences a different
I think it was the birth after you told
me to stop is the one where I felt the
most cuz I think the last couple of
breasts were it was like three seconds
five seconds seven seconds I'm thinking
about breathing in that amount of time
mm-hm rather than just doing it
naturally yeah because as I direct your
mind it turns on and then when it
becomes natural it can turn off and so I
don't know that this is the right
technique for you but I think that other
kinds of techniques could be very
difficult because I think your mind is
gonna need lots of stimulation and is
also going to need to be quite exhausted
to be calm so I think if I were to sit
there and ask you to observe your
thoughts maybe that's gonna be difficult
for you
so kebab potty or bellows breath is good
because it's like something that's kind
of active does that make sense you have
this period of intense activity which
then exhausts you and lets you enter
that state whereas if I tell you to go
straight to that state your mind is
gonna wander through the
tired huh yeah unless I'm unless I'm
tired
you'd be surprised even if you're
physically tired or mentally tired
sometimes the mind wanders more at those
times but you can try it when you're
tired okay so kind of focus exhaustion
or expending the energy of the the mind
or emptying your gas tank so that you
can sit in that emptiness is sometimes
what works for people like you so give
it a shot you can practice it I'd say
three to five minutes starting three to
five days a week if you want to be a
try-hard
League of Legends pro then you can you
know grind it out five minutes a day for
seven days a week
I'll do it casually because I think that
it's like one of those things where I
guess so there's people are caffeine
addicts I only drink one cup of coffee
at most a day because I feel like I get
the most out of it sure sure or people
that are drinking alcohol they drink a
lot that gring gain tolerance but the
less tolerance you have the cheaper it
is to get drunk sure you know I don't
really think meditation works like that
and in fact I mean I think I think the
one thing that I really like is that it
sounds like you're gonna make your own
exploration for it which i think is
exactly how you should do it okay any
questions for me before we kind of wrap
up for the day any last thoughts no I
just want to thank you for having me
that's been a very big eye-opener and I
didn't feel like I could feel this way
feel what way play
my point of view changed what instead of
looking at what's on the outside it
really is more on the inside I've been
looking for answers in the wrong places
yeah and I think that's why so
beautifully put
dyrus because I think the basic reason
that we don't move forward is because
it's not because we suck right like and
this is the really sad thing is that
when we look for answers in the wrong
places and we don't find them and we
don't get better we start to think less
about ourselves right we start to think
of ourselves as incompetent and lazy and
you know like but it's not it's not that
you're lazy it's just that you haven't
been taught right you don't know where
to look and like it's not your fault
that you're looking in the wrong place
and it's not that you suck or anything
like that it's just you know if I if I
go fishing in a bathtub I'm never gonna
catch any fish but like that's how we
live our life as we go fishing in
bathtubs every day and then we think
that we're incompetent fishermen it's
like it's just not how it works man yes
I mean yeah not getting of all kinds of
scenarios or you can catch a lot of
stuff out of your bathtub but anyway but
listen man I'm glad that this has been
helpful for you I'm sorry I couldn't
guide you a little bit more I mean I
think it is a big step to recognize that
it's on the inside and I really hope I'm
happy to help you you know down the road
or I really hope you can find someone to
help you in that internal exploration
and the crazy thing Dyer says I'm not
even so sure that you're gonna need that
much help because the last thing that
I'd share with you is I think you and I
think a surprising number of people on
Twitch on I mean I think we're all
actually very intelligent and very
capable I think the idea that we even
need someone's help comes from the fact
that we've been fishing in a bathtub our
entire life and not catching any fish
mm-hmm and and all we need to do is
point you in the right direction and
your natural intelligence your natural
tendency to like learn and grow and
reflect and analyze and to put your
minds to something and accomplish it all
of those strengths are gonna support you
in this way you they were just pointed
in the wrong direction
you know I think it's good that you're
seeing a therapist because I think
that'll facilitate things yeah I think
like all of this stuff I've been
thinking about for I guess the last
three to four years but it's like oh
maybe it's this or that but by you doing
this it's really solidifies the fact
that yeah I really shouldn't be fishing
in a bathtub I really I really shouldn't
be it's it really ties a bow on it like
you said well I'm happy to hear that
because I was afraid but yeah man so
listen I wish you all the best of luck
and you know keep us posted and if I can
help you in some other way let me know
and and you know if the meditation
doesn't work out for you or something
like that and you want a different
technique just shoot me in DM or
whatever and and good luck man thank you
thank you so much I appreciate it alone
all right take care of man I have a good
one peace
all right dyrus pong dyrus is great man
oh man I hope I hope I really hope
things work out for him Dyer's pod do I
need to tell you guys that y'all should
meditate along when I teach other people
meditation or is that kind of like deal
does that understood at this point
you
okay good understood I don't okay so
like yeah I mean so in the future you
know I just realized it I didn't tell
you guys to go along with it but y'all
should y'all should do it too I'll try
to remember to say it okay so let's
think a little bit about let's kind of
try to recap so I think the key
takeaways from from listening to dyrus I
think is stuff that you know hopefully
y'all caught as I was explaining it to
him so that so I think we have to be
really careful about how we solve
problems and we have to be careful about
you know the answers that we come up
with if they don't really fit and we
should be scientific because you know if
you think that I think burnout is a
great example in it like we asked about
burnout and it says okay it was because
I was like a pro-gamer fine and then it
was a streamer fine and then I took
three months off and it helped a little
bit it's like wait what you know it it's
kind of like if I say like yeah why are
you why is your hair wet and it's like
yeah because I'm in the shower and then
someone else is like okay well why is
your hair wet it's like I'm it's because
I'm in the bathtub and then even when I
go outside and it's a sunny day like I
get rained on or something I had the
analogy fell apart in my mind but my
point is that like you know you should
be critical about the notions that you
have about where your problems come from
and oftentimes we're we're thinking
about that and he absolutely meant just
that you know that's that's one one hell
of an aborted fetus of an analogy let me
tell you what it just didn't do it
thanks for the donation
dyrus and in Skull Kid so yeah sometimes
sometimes thoughts come out is stillborn
and I don't know how else to put it it's
just sometimes dr. gay has brilliant
realizations and sometimes he has just
really frankenstone me and little
homunculus five children and that's what
we're here for right
it's for the it's for the walls of oh
man
lyza age says dr. dr. k I wanted to
donate to honor the memory of my friend
who took his life four years ago
yesterday I can't see the rest of it but
you know work is incredible and I I hope
well dude I'm sorry that your your
friend took his life four years ago can
I just talk about that for a second I'm
gonna say something that I I've been
thinking a lot about suicide recently
and I have a patient who killed
themselves about a year ago and I have
another patient who I'm afraid is gonna
kill themselves in the next year or two
and it it's kind of rough right like
when we think about suicide and we think
about it's it's rough when people take
their own life and you know the crazy
part of me is like there's a there's a
part of me and as especially as I think
about the people that I work with it and
we have this assumption that suicide is
wrong and I don't think you guys should
kill yourselves but I also feel like the
more that I understand people who
struggle it makes sense to me right if
we if we're being really honest about it
like some people suffer and the person
that I'm worried about now has been
suffering for years and they have tried
so so hard to get better and they're
they're trying and like every day for
them is a struggle and it's not like
every day is a struggle like every day
is a struggle it's like every day is
just torturous it's like they wake up
every day and they're like in like they
just it's like another day of torture
and you know there are bright spots here
and there they have some physical
illness too which you know really
doesn't help they have bright spots here
and there we're trying to figure out you
know how to help this person and when
it's not really working like nothing's
really working and and and we have to
acknowledge that that feeling is real
right like I think sometimes it's a
little bit ignorant for us to assume
that I mean I think I think it's just
uncompassionate to say to everyone yeah
you should absolutely live I think you
should absolutely live but I think you
should be honest with yourself because I
do think that there's hope
but I think that it's also important to
acknowledge that like some people really
do suffer and when I've worked with
people who are suicidal the crazy thing
is like it's not you know it's a game
that they've been trying to play for
years and years and years and then like
eventually they just don't want to play
it and that's not crazy
right like I think this is one of the
craziest things about suicide as we
think about these people is mentally ill
which sometimes they are but we kind of
say it like when we say that that's
crazy you're kind of invalidating like
what they feel and what they think and
one of the things that I've learned as a
psychiatrist is that being suicidal is
not crazy and and the really bizarre
thing is that the more that I think
about suicidal people is not crazy but
completely sane that's when you can help
them and that's where a actually comes
from it's really bizarre it's not that
hope like hope doesn't come from
ignoring your situation and pretending
that something else's can exist that's
fantasy hope comes from starting where
you are fantasy is all about your mind
where you want to end up right I can
look at the top of Mount Everest and I
can fantasize about when I reach the top
but it's not about where I am it's aware
about I imagine I can go and when you
tell a suicidal person took that
everything's gonna be okay you know
that's that doesn't feel real to them
and what I really think that if you guys
are struggling with suicidality you
should absolutely see a professional and
and get help with that because it's not
fair for you to have to deal with that
alone and I do think you can get to the
top of Mount Everest
but I think getting to the top of Mount
Everest and being free from your
suicidality and like being free from
depression and loving and enjoying life
starts with an acknowledgement that like
you were filled with despair and you
don't know where to go from here and
that's tough but I know it sounds
absolutely crazy but like I mean come on
like if you want to be a good
psychiatrist you have to meet your
patients where they're at right you
can't just pretend that their reality
doesn't exist you have to say hey man
like I get that you're suffering and I
really do see it like honestly it's not
crazy to me that you're thinking about
killing yourself because I've been
working with you for two years now and
we've been trying so hard and I feel
despair but I'm your treater
like you're the one who's actually
living it every day and I get that your
despair is absolutely real and I don't
know that even I have hope for you but
you know what I want to keep trying and
I want you to keep trying because I
don't want you to give up but I don't
blame you if you do because I do think
that we're getting somewhere like we're
making a little bit of progress and we
have these high points and if you can
have one good day in two years then you
can have two good days in the next two
years
but let's be honest like if that's the
way you feel that's the way that you
feel and if we want to fix something
that's broken let's start out by
admitting how broken it is right
that you need a new engine and you need
new tires and you need new axles and you
need new seatbelts and you need a new
steering wheel like fine like I get that
that feels impossible to you but if you
are willing to give me a chance I'm
gonna keep trying and I need your help
to keep trying that's how I feel is that
it's not it's not crazy right like the
to call a suicidal person crazy is just
not helpful
these people aren't crazy they're
suffering this is their reality and and
this is what we need to understand like
I think this is one of the biggest
problems that has happened with our
generation is we call people like
especially men who kill themselves we
say it's a mental health problem it's
depression and that's like such a
cop-out answer right like if
someone is in so much despair that they
don't see a way forward and they feel
burdened with like responsibility and
you know they feel like they can't do
anything in life like that there's no
way for it and they've been trying for
so long and they've just they just can't
they have no answers and they've been
trying it for five years six years 10
years 12 years and then they kill
themselves and like oh yeah that was
illness no it's not illness like that
person just needed a little bit of help
needed a little bit of a bright point
needed a little bit more support and we
didn't give it to them it's not illness
it's like oh yeah it's a chemical
imbalance in your brain not my
fault that's it's really dangerous what
we've done to men especially because
they committed suicide more than women
and I see this a lot with men is that we
said oh that's a neurochemical imbalance
like it's not your fault man it's a
neurochemical imbalance but you know
what it's not my fault either because
it's a neurochemical imbalance oh yeah
it's a neurochemical imbalance it's no
one's fault it's just
you know it's like no one's fault and so
when when no one's at fault no one needs
to take responsibility and that's where
I think we we've up basically as
a society with this whole generation
we've let all you guys down because what
we've done is we've labeled you with
illness you said oh yeah you're
depressed it's a neurochemical
imbalance boomers are like go see a
psychiatrist and get an SSRI not my
problem it's it's the biggest
cop-out and I mean don't get me wrong
like I have a psychiatrist and I
believe in mental OSA I'm not saying
mental Luce isn't real
I'm not like I prescribe medications so
I think you guys should all definitely
go see psychiatrists and therapists and
help with those things because we know
those tools can help my point is that
that's not the answer it's part of the
answer and that there's a whole other
part of it there's a whole other part
about meaning and caring and like we
just look at dyrus dyrus isn't burnt out
because his coach made him play too much
eSports he's not burnt out because of
you guys
he's burnt out because no one listened
when they needed to he's burnt out
cuz he's a he's been a
top laner in his whole life like he says
his parents are divorced what I want to
know is like where was his mom when his
dad threw a baseball into his face right
like what happened like why didn't
someone stick up for him when the
teachers put him in anger management but
just think about that for a second right
kids come up to you and bully you and
then you fight back and then they stick
your ass in anger management where the
is his lawyer abandonment it's not
fair and it's not right and then the kid
gets labeled with anger management
problems it's an illness it's a
neurochemical imbalance in your brain
you have anger management problems
you're just broken in here man
it's not your fault but you're just
broken and the normal kids are
over here so learn how to manage your
feelings we're gonna teach you some
useful skills fine there's some useful
skills
I'm not saying an anger management is
bad but I'm saying that like where we're
doing something very very dangerous by
protocol izing and pathologizing a lot
of normal experience we're absolving
ourselves a responsibility right I still
remember I talked about this with Anita
that you know it's kind of bizarre but I
was working with a guy who's in jail and
the reason he was in jail is because he
started selling drugs at the age of 16
because his three older sisters said
that what a man does is provide and you
have to provide for your older sisters
otherwise you're not a man so how the
does a 16 year old provide for
three adult women since drugs and then
he gets suicidal only then I come in and
I talked to him and like I talk
for a while and I realized man this guy
is so a pill is not gonna fix
this this is not a neurochemical is
there a neuro come chemical balance
absolutely will medication help him but
is it gonna fix it no this guy needs to
understand that like you know he was not
taught that adult like 16 year old boys
should not be financially responsible
for three adults and you think about
this you go back to an Eden you just
think about what she was taught she
loves her mother and her mother sounds
like she had very serious challenges and
we're not gonna blame her for that and
at the same time what was in either time
what were we taught
why are kids mean because they're taught
to be me what were you guys taught how
were you taught every time you
you go fishing in the bathtub you're
taught and then like society looks to
your parents like why haven't you
graduated yet like why did you fail out
of college like why don't you have a job
I haven't you moved out
boomers are like these kids
nowadays like they're not buying rings
and they're not buying houses and they
don't know how to work like what what
birth man
why do you think that is where do you
think we learned how to be lazy oh yeah
we learned it from the boomer generation
because they had everything handed to
them
this bizarre do you think maybe maybe
instead of us being an entire generation
it's an entire generation right you
think like maybe an entire generation
just learned the same lesson
which is completely the opposite of what
the generation before us learned it's
just like we went 180 no generations
kids learn what their parents teach them
oh it's it's not like we all grow up in
America speaking English an entire
generation grows up speaking Swahili
that's not how it works we speak English
because you guys speak English
we were taught our values because you
guys taught it to us and the world is a
different place and that formula doesn't
work anymore
but no oh it's mental illness Oh mental
illness yeah just absolve yourselves of
all responsibility mental
illness so yeah I mean I don't mean once
again don't get me wrong mental and this
is real I think we should treat it
seriously I think if you guys are
feeling suicidal you should get help but
also cut yourself a break because you're
not broken in here the reason that you
feel that way is completely legitimate
and if you've been struggling for a
while those struggles are real and if
you feel like you're in despair that's
not your fault it's our fault
because life is a multiplayer game boys
and girls
it's a multiplayer game twitch is a
multiplayer platform it's all
multiplayer so how can you blame
yourself like sure do you should you do
more absolutely but it's a
multiplayer game
so get get the help that you need and
more importantly help out the person
that needs it right ask the question
that like people aren't willing to ask
if you ask them when how are you doing
today look actually look them in the eye
be like how are you actually doing today
let that question mean something an AoE
healing is not about like me you know
spraying AoE on all of you guys I mean
it is but like what a Oh a healing is
really about I think if you really look
at it deeply it's about like you guys
becoming hewers to I mean all you have
to do become a healer is like fix
yourself and then it'll come naturally
like just fix yourselves I mean just fix
yourself something just fix yourself
millennial boomers fix yourself
just know well I'm saying like all you
have to do is fix yourself focus on
yourself let you be your Karma let you
be your focus you can come first stop
putting other people first
right I'm talking to Anita you can come
first sometimes like sometimes like 10%
of the time you could come first
you can come first and you should you
should come first right cuz like you're
a entitled millennial Jenn's e
tick tock YouTube twitch person you're a
special snowflake like it's so weird
like we we I mean I'm all for special
snowflakes and that people can be
narcissistic but at the same time like
so just think about this for a second
we're essentially like telling a
generation of people that they should
grow the up
no like take yourself seriously like
accept responsibility for what you do
right and accept responsibility for what
you do wrong and don't take
responsibility for what other people do
wrong
just because someone calls you a special
snowflake doesn't mean that you're doing
something wrong
like should you be narcissistic
absolutely not should you focus on
yourself absolutely should you give
yourself that the credit that you're
worth absolutely anyway all right so
thank you guys very much and yeah so may
is mental health awareness month and
we're doing a big push
I saw low DPM gave us a bunch of gifted
subs man low DPM has been supporting our
streams since its inception in October
and a huge thank you to you know man or
woman or anything in between that you
are we really appreciate the support so
here's the thing we're training coaches
because we want to spread this message
for each and every one of you who's out
there if you need to talk to someone
like me we're gonna try to train someone
right so they're not like level 60
healers they're like level 20 30 40
healers depending on which one they're
pretty good they can they can raid with
you guys you know cuz you guys aren't
route level ready for levels and game
content anyway y'all are twelve five and
ten and twenty so so this is what our
coaching program is about and that's why
we're raising money is insane
that in seven days we were eight to
raise $10,000 I didn't know if we were
gonna even raise like I didn't know I
mean we've never made this much money on
screen before like nowhere close to this
and it's it's amazing it's amazing and
we want to fix this right so like some
time ago doctor case showed up on Twitch
and he started streaming and then people
reached out for help and they were like
and then I felt bad because I had to
turn not just turn people away I
couldn't even answer my emails
and so I was talking to a friend of mine
and and she was like yeah like there's
really she said oh like either you
duplicate yourself or there's nothing
you can do and she meant like you can't
duplicate yourself because that's
physically impossible and so you
shouldn't feel bad about it because
you're just one person she's trying to
be supportive and then I was like you
know what you're right either I
duplicate myself or there's nothing I
can do in which case everyone gets let
down the world continues people continue
to be suicidal and despaired and
and then nothing I can do I did the best
that I could I did a good job
I helped people every day for 40 hours a
week 50 hours a week 60 hours a week
that's enough and it should be right I
should be content with that but I'm not
I'm not because I I mean when I was
failing out of college and all that
and you know full of despair and I
realize that's probably sort of an
insult like it wasn't a thing back then
but I was a nerd that's what we called
it and then nerds became cool and Game
of Thrones became mainstream in gaming
became mainstream and then the thing
that I was has become an insult
um which is an interesting and you know
anthropological kind of analysis but and
and so like you know cuz there are
people out there like me like you guys
are like me like we're the same that's
why this works right this works because
like I am you and you or me and that's
that's why I have hope because we're no
different and so I was like you know
what you're right I'm gonna I'm gonna
duplicate myself and people like oh
that's the same like you're so brilliant
it's like no guys I don't think you guys
understand I'm actually not that
brilliant and you guys get if I'm you
you or me that means we can duplicate
this we can clone this right it's
no longer like an MMO
it's an RTS and we're gonna build a
couple of like barracks and we're gonna
start churning out priests because I'm
not a hero
I'm just a regular unit like we're gonna
take an RTS strategy it's not like a
single-player game like it's not like
Zelda or your link running around and
you're like one of a kind
it's like Warcraft 3 and we're
just gonna churn out
you know infantry and we're gonna do it
cuz I think that's good enough cuz I
think y'all are amazing and I have faith
in y'all it's crazy I know oh my god
twitch chat is so toxic oh my god like
people gamers are so toxic new school
shooters this that no I don't I don't
buy it
thugs ugh absolutely zigzag absolutely
so that's what our coaching program is
that's why we're raising money because
we also understand that a lot of y'all
are broke but we also apparently on
that a lot of you guys are not and
that's pretty awesome that y'all are
willing to help and so we're gonna try
to make things as affordable as possible
and we're gonna make try to make things
as fast as possible and as good as
possible and so we're doing a bunch of
Harvard's Andy stuff behind the scenes
in terms of research study design and
research and outcome measures and
quality assurance and all that kind of
because at the end of the day like
how do you determine whether a coach can
actually help someone like how do you
measure that how do you measure whether
someone can actually be helped so a lot
of this is gonna fund you know kind of
like our quality metrics and research
design and stuff like that and we've had
I've asked for a couple of people's help
and thankfully I just tweeted it out and
a couple people from our community of
volunteered to help us and that's been
actually fantastic and at some point we
may get like NIH grants and like
that but yeah so that's what we're doing
and I'm just grateful for your help
because here's the thing I can't do it
right like cuz this is the thing you
guys got to remember if I'm peon then I
can't save you so what I need is a bunch
of other peons
and we can do it together like when you
if you guys have played war 3 or if you
guys have played in RTS right you've got
a little stuck about Starcraft 2 it's
like if you've got like one SCV like one
SCV can't do we need a bunch of
SCV's and if we've got a bunch of SCV's
then we can do a lot of stuff and that's
what healthy gamer is about is it if I'm
an SCV you're an SUV and you can do it
too that's what we're about and so thank
you for your help everyone who's been I
saw someone else gifted a bunch of subs
so thank you for all of the monies and
yeah so let's figure out
okay so this Friday we have polka mein
and I'm still confused about so we're
gonna do drunk I guess drinking a ma
with dr. kay so I'm just gonna stream
for a while and we're gonna shoot the
you guys can post questions on
reddit and yeah so here's the link for
the reddit if you guys have so a couple
of kind of outgoing things okay so if
you guys want you can post your
questions there and we're just gonna up
vote down vote right so that you guys
can you know we'll see when we'll answer
those questions and then there's gonna
be drinking involved because we hit that
stretch goal because stupid us we you
know I was like oh yeah like we can do
like drinking MA like no one's gonna
we're not gonna raise $4,000 so some
like that
and I think we've also hit the benchmark
for learning to play League of Legends
and then we're gonna talk to polka mean
and I'm still confused about you know I
think it depends on what she wants to do
about whether I'm inebriated or not
because I feel like that's kind of a
dick thing to do right to be drinking
while I'm talking to someone I feel like
it's not fair to them but anyway
whatever she wants to do and thank you
very much to her for offering to come on
and support us and yeah so yeah so
that's gonna be Friday and we're excited
and I think hopefully we've got some
more stuff coming up so Friday will be a
long stream it'll be a little bit more
chill we may hop on discord for a while
and talk although I've been burned by
that too a chat
for those of you who have seen the thing
that was were there for what has been
scrubbed from the internet when like
7,000 people swarm into discord and
someone realizes that they can be a
troll and and I mean I don't I can't
really blame you for that because I was
laughing on the inside but please don't
do it again can we be clear about that
like don't do that again and also I can
appreciate you for who you are man I
don't I
blame you for it but I also forgive you
for it and please don't do it again
yeah that's life so thank you guys very
much I'm gonna go ahead and sign off
today because I've got an appointment in
about 20 minutes and love you guys you
know we've got a lot of good stuff
coming I'm gonna take next week I'm
gonna stream and stuff but I'm not
having any of my clinical appointments
and stuff and I'm gonna focus on
building stuff for y'all because people
have asked me for things so I'm gonna
just take a week off where I'm gonna
like write and work on my books and
maybe make webinars and all that kind of
stuff we've got webinars and stuff
planned the other thing is that you guys
can pop on our discord if you guys want
a goal added to this you guys should let
me know what that is so you guys can
post suggestions and if we're cool with
that
you know we'll do it we can add those
kinds of stretch goals and I think we
hit our 9000 which is a stream on lying
which will probably be like a bonus
stream well I'll talk to you guys about
why people lie why we lie why we lie to
ourselves how to detect lying and
someone else I can't it's not like a
machine that doesn't work like that but
to understand what goes on in someone's
mind when they lie and why they lie and
so that for you to be able to you know
see if you can see that going on in
their mind then you can sort of deduce
that they could be lying or maybe lying
or probably our line so we'll we'll
we'll talk about that
so other thoughts you know a little
stuff that's a little bit off script is
like I was thinking about doing
something about sociopathy because a lot
of people asked about that or other
topics that you guys want me to just
kind of talk about we can do that so
thank you guys very much
and best of luck and stay safe and if
you guys are really struggling with
something like suicidal suicidality
please get help because you
deserve it and give us time that's the
other thing so what I ask my patients
for is time so if you want to kill
yourself I'm not gonna disagree that
that seems like a good idea to you but
give me time let me try to help you and
give yourselves time give yourselves
time to heal give yourselves time give
yourself like time for someone to walk
into the bathroom and say hey man
there's no fish in the bathtub maybe you
should come out to the lake and give
yourself time
for like things to change and cut
yourself some slack and it's not that
it's not that you aren't successful it's
not that your feelings aren't real it's
just that like that's not you being a
failure that's us letting you down so
give us a chance to help you
and and sign up for some kind of mental
health treatment and give yourself a
chance to get better and so suicide
sucks so take care guys I'll see you
guys on Friday and okay so Fri that's
gonna be more festive how about that I
feel like this is kind of a downer but
you know these feelings are real and
that's okay so let's let's do less
Downers so thank you see Eskow same time
so we're gonna start it at noon central
and then we'll run until I pass out or
my kids can't take it anymore
and I saw that other people have been
gifting subs so well I'm gonna do
special shoutouts to people at the
beginning of stream and oh I was
about to okay Louie to rate okay
drinking a
after the polka mainstream okay great
raid raid who raid no no we're gonna
raid we're gonna write